---
layout: page
title: "Full Stack Web Developer"
categories: blog
excerpt:
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2017-05-02
---

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

## Core Competencies

| Python | Java | JavaScript | Redux
| React|Bootstrap | Docker | Front-end
|Back-end | Middle-end| JQuery|

## Profile
- A highly skilled and experienced Web Technologies Developer, Tester, Designer, Architect and Build Manager with an impressive career spanning 20 years, developing outstanding technical skills in Java, Agile Development techniques, web development and J2EE.  Experience has been gained through working in a wide variety of industry sectors and playing a key technical role in the successful development and implementation of major projects.  Degree educated, a strong communicator, self-motivated, enthusiastic, quality-driven, hard-working and analytical.
- Driven by quality, current obsessions include Groovy, Python, JavaScript and various dynamic languages for prototyping, and for DSL’s to improve application and environment visibility.

## Major acheivements
- AdScale - Various DSL’s to improve testability in applications.
- AdScale - Web Apps to observe and test complex asynchronous applications.
- AdScale - Improved Fitnesse techniques
- AdScale - Coming up with better ways to test and better ways to turn stories around faster.
- Track record of completing projects within agreed timescales and to budget.
- Open Source - Implemented new testing techniques using a variety of frameworks. (Allows tests written in JUnit to be run under Fitnesse, providing the flexibility of JUnit and Spock, and the visibility of Fitnesse)
- Ran a Coding Dojo over the Agile Professional Network, which ran for 14 sessions, with an average of 5 attendees per evening, introducing TDD to the Christchurch coding community.
- Analysed and designed a vital new shopping web portal for Shopping.com, re-branding the site and implementing major innovative changes before the system went live.

## Core technical skills
- JavaScript(15years), Python (1 year), Nodejs, Java (14 years) J2EE (8 years).

## Dynamic languages
- Python, Javascript, Groovy, Ruby (5 years)
- Docker (3 months)
- TDD, Test Driven Development. (6 years)
- Agile Development Techniques 8 years), Scrum (6 year) and Crystal Clear(6 months.
- SQL, Postgres, MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server (MS and Sybase), DB2
- XML Processing systems. (3 years) XPath, XQuery
- Technical analysis and design (15 years).
- Web Architecture (8 years), REST (1 year), Legacy Bridges (4 years), JSPs (8 years), Servlets (8 years), Applets, Hibernate, JDBC, JMS, UML, Struts, Spring, Maven, Cruise Control, Hudson, Jakarta Commons, HTML, XML(7 years), CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse.Web Servers: Tomcat, Jetty, WebLogic, Oracle OAS, Websphere, JBoss.

### TOASTMASTERS
- Compentent Communicator President of Shoreline Club 2012-13. Toastmaster of the Year, 2011-2012.


## Career history

### Optimicer
    role: Python/Javascript Developer
    period: 3 months
    organization: Optimicer Ltd, London
    content: |
      Python, Javascript, React, Redux, Docker, SASS
      A short term contract, working remotely

### Adscale
    role: Java Developer/QA/Test Engineer
    period: 5 years
    organization: AdScale Laboratories Ltd
    content: |
      Initially in the stats team, migrated to AdServer QA team which is responsible for serving ads quickly and in a timely manner. Operating in a millisecond turnaround environment, using a variety of techniques and technologies including Couchbase, Vertica, Hazelcast, and old school techniques such as file transfer for statistics.
      Designing and implementing a variety of test frameworks to speed up turnaround on stories and ensure system reliability.
      (Fire Warden, Cook, Santa,  Coding Dojo-ist, TDD/BDD Evangelist)

### Productability
     role: Groovy Developer
     period: 1 year
     organization: ProductAbility/Wategan Creek Software
     content: |
       Rewriting an old Swing application using strict MVC techniques. Using Groovy, SwingBuilder, Griffon and Gant.

### Various
    - Optimus (BSkyB) Corporation [Voice Provisioning System]
    - Agilisys Consultant
    - The Practical Law Company [Online Publishing for Law]
    - GT (Media Company)

## Other experience
  - Completed various contracts from 1993, clients included IBM, Logica, Legal & General, Marks & Spencer and Unilever.
  - Developed a variety of technical skills, including: C++, Java, JSP, HTML.


### Qualification
  - Bachelor of Applied Science - Computer Science, University of Technology, Sydney 1988 – 1992.

### Additional
  - Hobbies: Father of 3 year old twins, Cooking, Gardening, DIY. Dog owner.
